1. Project Title and Author
===========================

Final Project: Interactive Renewable Energy Farm Visualization
Gunabhiram Aruru
CSCI 4229/5229 Computer Graphics

2. Project Review Note
----------------------

This is the Project Review (almost-final milestone build). The program is
intended to compile and run as submitted so the instructor can evaluate whether
the project is on track. The final submission will focus on Project Review
feedback, visual polish, code cleanup, shader/wind refinement, and final
packaging.

3. Short Project Description
----------------------------

This project is an interactive renewable-energy farm built in compatibility-
profile OpenGL from handmade geometry rather than imported 3D models. The scene
contains wind turbines, textured terrain and access paths, a farmhouse-style
control building, fences, trees, solar panels, a transparent greenhouse,
battery/inverter storage, an electrical substation and power lines, a weather
station, rocks, crop rows, a sheep paddock, and a maintenance worker.

The project emphasizes graphics techniques from the course: handmade geometry
and normals, transformations and reusable models, perspective and orthographic
projections, orbit and first-person navigation, positional lighting, material
response, texture mapping, alpha blending, fog, GLSL shaders, fixed-pipeline
fallback rendering, animation, and object inspection. It is a graphics
visualization, not a simulation-heavy game.

4. Current Implemented Features
-------------------------------

- Handmade 3D renewable-energy farm scene with no imported 3D models.
- Three wind turbines with frame-rate-independent animated blades.
- Shared wind-speed control affecting turbine blades, weather-station
  anemometer motion, and wind-flow animation.
- Textured grass terrain, paths, building walls and roofs, turbine and utility
  metal, fences and doors, trees, and handmade boulders.
- Nine handmade solar-panel assemblies, battery/inverter storage, an electrical
  substation, power poles, and connecting lines.
- Farmhouse-style control building, greenhouse, crop rows, fences, trees,
  sheep paddock, weather station, and maintenance worker.
- Moving positional sun/light with manual angle and height controls.
- Different material response for metal, solar panels, building surfaces,
  glass, rocks, animals, and the worker.
- Perspective orbit camera with keyboard and mouse rotation and zoom.
- First-person camera with movement, keyboard look, and mouse look.
- Fixed orthographic overhead overview mode.
- Object inspection modes for a turbine, control building, greenhouse, solar
  panel, battery/inverter unit, sheep, worker, and boulder cluster.
- GLSL 1.20 animated wind-flow ribbons with a CPU-animated fixed-pipeline
  fallback if the shader is disabled or unavailable.
- Transparent greenhouse glass rendered in a separate blended pass with depth
  writes disabled.
- Optional linear distance fog, disabled at startup.
- Texture, lighting, glass, ribbon, shader, fog, axes, and animation toggles.
- On-screen HUD showing the selected object, camera mode, wind speed, shader
  status, ribbon status, and important review controls.

5. Original Contribution
------------------------

My original contribution is an interactive renewable-energy visualization built
from handmade geometry, with object inspection and an animated wind/turbine
response layer. The goal is not only to place objects in a scene, but to make
the energy farm visually inspectable and interactive through camera modes,
animated turbine motion, lighting/material response, textures, transparency,
and shader/fallback visualization.

The main project-specific contribution is the animated wind-flow visualization,
where wind speed affects both the visual wind layer and turbine blade motion.
The same value also drives the weather-station anemometer. The GLSL ribbons and
their fixed-pipeline fallback use the same wind-speed control so the central
visual response remains available if shader compilation is unsupported.

6. Final Submission Upgrade Plan
--------------------------------

For the final submission, I am not just adding more objects. This Project
Review build is already a shader-based renewable-energy visualization. The
final version will further refine the animated GLSL wind-flow ribbons, the
wind-speed connection to turbine motion, object inspection views, normals and
materials, transparent greenhouse glass, and fog. A simple projected-shadow
feature may be added only if it is stable. The goal is to show the graphics
techniques from the course clearly rather than overbuilding unrelated
simulation logic.

This Project Review version is close to final, but the remaining work is
focused on polish, feedback response, and making the shader/wind visualization
clearer.

7. Build and Run Instructions
-----------------------------

Run these commands from the project directory:

    make clean
    make
    ./final

The executable target is named final. Keep wind.vert, wind.frag, and the
textures directory in their submitted locations because the program loads them
using relative paths at runtime.

The Makefile uses the OpenGL and GLUT frameworks on macOS. On Linux it links
against GLUT, GLU, OpenGL, and libm. Linux builds may optionally use GLEW with:

    make USEGLEW=1

The Project Review build was verified with a clean warning-free build using
g++ -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra on macOS.

8. Controls
-----------

Important Project Review controls:

    0                 Return to the complete farm
    1                 Inspect one wind turbine
    2                 Inspect the farmhouse-style control building
    3                 Inspect the greenhouse
    4                 Inspect one solar panel
    5                 Inspect the battery / inverter storage unit
    6                 Inspect one sheep
    7                 Inspect the maintenance worker
    8                 Inspect a handmade boulder cluster
    m or M            Cycle orbit, first-person, and overhead cameras
    [ / ]             Decrease / increase wind speed
    p or P            Toggle GLSL wind shader / fixed-pipeline fallback
    v or V            Toggle wind-flow ribbons
    R                 Reset the full-scene camera and light position

Camera and movement:

    Arrow keys        Rotate the orbit camera or look in first-person mode
    W / S             Move forward / backward in first-person mode
    A / D             Strafe left / right in first-person mode
    Page Up/Down      Zoom in / out in orbit mode
    + or =            Zoom in in orbit mode
    - or _            Zoom out in orbit mode
    Left mouse drag   Rotate orbit view or look in first-person mode
    Mouse wheel       Zoom in / out in orbit mode

Lighting, rendering, and animation:

    r                 Pause / resume turbine blade animation
    Space             Pause / resume automatic sun movement
    , / .             Move the sun angle backward / forward
    < / >             Lower / raise the sun
    l or L            Toggle lighting
    f or F            Toggle distance fog
    t or T            Toggle textures
    g or G            Toggle greenhouse glass
    a or A            Toggle axes outside first-person mode
                      (A strafes left while in first-person mode)
    q, Q, or ESC      Exit

The overhead camera is a fixed orthographic overview. Orbit rotation and zoom
controls apply only in orbit mode, and first-person movement is constrained to
the farm boundary.

9. What Remains Before Final Submission
---------------------------------------

This Project Review version is intended to be close to the final project. The
remaining work is mainly polish, feedback response, and final cleanup rather
than a full redesign.

Planned final work:

1. Address any feedback from the Project Review submission.

2. Polish object geometry, normals, and texture coordinates, especially on the
   wind turbines, solar panels, trees, and greenhouse.

3. Tune the animated wind/shader visualization and keep the fixed-pipeline
   fallback working.

4. Refine the wind-speed response so its effect on turbine blade speed and
   wind-flow animation is immediately visible.

5. Improve transparency draw order and fog/light settings for a cleaner
   outdoor scene.

6. Refine object inspection views so each major handmade object is easy to
   review.

7. Add one final polish feature only if stable: simple projected shadows, a
   weather/time mode, improved curved turbine blade geometry, or a comparable
   small visual improvement.

8. Perform the final submission audit: clean build, no warnings, no unrelated
   files, correct texture/shader filenames, README updated, and clean ZIP only.

10. Code Reuse / References / AI Disclosure
------------------------------------------

Camera and projection code, GLUT setup, BMP texture loading, lighting patterns,
and shader-loading structure are based on previous assignments and class
examples where applicable.

This project is a large extension of my Homework 3 project, with new and
expanded geometry, object inspection, larger scene composition, animation,
shader/fallback visualization, transparency, fog, README cleanup, and final
polish.

Some texture images are external reference assets. The submitted textures are
used on handmade geometry; no external 3D models are used.

AI Assistance:
AI tools were used as a support tool for planning, debugging, audit checklists,
README wording, refactoring suggestions, and small code-pattern suggestions. I
reviewed, tested, and modified the code before submission. The submitted
program reflects my own integration, debugging, scene design decisions, OpenGL
state management, and final implementation choices.

11. Time Spent
--------------

Time spent so far: approximately 47 hours.
Expected additional time before final submission: approximately 6 hours.

12. Known Limitations
---------------------

- Some visual effects, especially wind-ribbon visibility, fog, materials, and
  transparency, may be tuned further before the final submission.
- Shader mode has a fixed-pipeline fallback if GLSL compilation or linking is
  unsupported.
- Transparent geometry is separated into later render passes but is not sorted
  per polygon.
- Simple projected shadows are not currently implemented; they are optional
  final polish only.
- First-person navigation has boundary limits but no object collision
  detection.
- Final Project Review feedback will guide the last polish pass.
